Document 1
Primary health care is a whole-of-society approach to effectively organize and strengthen national health systems to bring services for health and wellbeing closer to communities.
It has 3 components: integrated health services to meet people’s health needs throughout their lives addressing the broader determinants of health through multisectoral policy and action empowering individuals, families and communities to take charge of their own health.
Impact: Universal health coverage will only be possible when everyone, everywhere can access the health services they need.
Scaling up primary health care interventions across low- and middle-income countries could save 60 million lives and increase average life expectancy by 3.7 years by 2030.
The following year, at the UN high-level meeting on universal health coverage, countries declared their commitment to “expand the delivery of and prioritize primary health care as a cornerstone of a sustainable people-centred, community-based and integrated health system and the foundation for achieving universal health coverage.”

---

Document 2
Rabies Overview: Rabies is a viral zoonotic disease that causes progressive and fatal inflammation of the brain and spinal cord.
Clinically, it has two forms: Furious rabies – characterized by hyperactivity and hallucinations.
The paralytic form of rabies is often misdiagnosed, contributing to the under-reporting of the disease.
Apply an iodine-containing or anti-viral medication to the wound 15 minutes after it has been washed and flushed.
WHO continues to promote human rabies prevention through the elimination of rabies in dogs, dog bite prevention strategies, and more widespread use of the intradermal route for post-exposure prophylaxis, which reduces volume and therefore the cost of cell-cultured vaccine by 60% to 80%.

---

Document 3
Human-made radiation sources are widely used in medicine, industry, and research.
There are two types of radiation: ionizing and non-ionizing radiation.
Artificial radiation sources are used for nuclear power generation and many other industrial and research applications, with the medical use of ionizing radiation being today the highest contributor to people’s exposure (e.g. diagnostic radiology, image-guided interventions, nuclear medicine and radiotherapy).
It includes electric and magnetic fields, radio waves, microwaves, and optical radiation, which consists of infrared, visible, and ultraviolet radiation.
Non-ionizing radiation also encompasses mechanical waves such as infrasound and ultrasound.

---

Document 4
Radon gas escapes easily from the ground into the air.
Radon decays and produces further radioactive particles.
Radon causes between 3–14% of all lung cancers, depending on the average radon level and the smoking prevalence in a country.
Well-tested, durable and cost-efficient methods exist for preventing radon in new houses and reducing radon in existing dwellings.
Radon levels in existing homes can be reduced by, for example, improving the ventilation of the house and sealing floors and walls.In many countries, drinking water is obtained from groundwater sources such as springs and wells.

---

Document 5
Refugee and migrant health Overview: Today there are some 1 billion migrants globally, about 1 in 8 of the global population.
Refugee and migrant health are also strongly related to the social determinants of health in host communities (e.g., employment, income, education and housing).
To promote public health protection for them and the host populations, refugees and migrants should have equitable access to quality health services, free of discrimination, exclusion and stigma.
The WHO Global action plan has six key priorities: promote the health of refugees and migrants through a mix of short-term and long-term public health interventions; promote continuity and quality of essential health care, while developing, reinforcing and implementing occupational health and safety measures; advocate the mainstreaming of refugee and migrant health into global, regional and country agendas and the promotion of refugee-sensitive and migrant-sensitive health policies and legal and social protection; the health and well-being of refugee and migrant women, children and adolescents; gender equality and empowerment of refugee and migrant women and girls; and partnerships and intersectoral, intercountry and interagency coordination and collaboration mechanisms; enhance capacity to tackle the social determinants of health and to accelerate progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, including universal health coverage; strengthen health monitoring and health information systems; and support measures to improve evidence-based health communication and to counter misconceptions about migrant and refugee health.
WHO Health and Migration Programme (PHM) aims to implement the Global action plan to promote and secure the health rights of refugees and migrants by providing global leadership in health and migration issues.

---

Document 6
Rehabilitation Overview: Rehabilitation addresses the impact of a health condition on a person’s everyday life by optimizing their functioning and reducing their experience of disability.
Rehabilitation expands the focus of health beyond preventative and curative care to ensure people with a health condition can remain as independent as possible and participate in education, work and meaningful life roles.
This need is predicted to increase in the coming years due to changes in the health and characteristics of the population.
Impact: Although the need for rehabilitation is increasing globally, many countries are unequipped to respond to existing needs.
To this end, WHO works to make rehabilitation part of health care at all levels through efforts to strengthen health systems as a whole.

---

Document 7
Research Overview: Research is indispensable for resolving public health challenges – whether it be tackling diseases of poverty, responding to rise of chronic diseases, or ensuring that mothers have access to safe delivery practices.
Likewise, shared vulnerability to global threats, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome, Ebola virus disease, Zika virus and avian influenza has mobilized global research efforts in support of enhancing capacity for preparedness and response.
Research for health spans 5 generic areas of activity: measuring the magnitude and distribution of the health problem; understanding the diverse causes or the determinants of the problem, whether they are due to biological, behavioural, social or environmental factors; developing solutions or interventions that will help to prevent or mitigate the problem; implementing or delivering solutions through policies and programmes; and evaluating the impact of these solutions on the level and distribution of the problem.
One of the Organization’s core functions is to set international norms, standards and guidelines, including setting international standards for research.
Under the “WHO strategy on research for health”, the Organization works to identify research priorities, and promote and conduct research with the following 4 goals: Capacity - build capacity to strengthen health research systems within Member States.

---

Document 8
While some human infections have resulted from the bite of infected mosquitoes, most human infections result from contact with the blood or organs of infected animals.
Symptoms: Mild form of Rift Valley Fever in humans The interval from infection to onset of symptoms for Rift Valley fever (RVF) varies from 2 to 6 days.
RVF is difficult to distinguish from other viral haemorrhagic fevers as well as from many other diseases that cause fever, including malaria and typhoid fever.
It has been used experimentally to protect veterinary and laboratory personnel at high risk of exposure to RVF.
Risk of animal-to-human transmission of infection can be reduced by avoiding unsafe animal husbandry and slaughtering practices by maintaining good hygiene, and avoiding unsafe consumption of fresh blood, raw milk or animal tissue in affected regions.

---

Document 9
Road traffic injuries Overview: Road traffic crashes result in the deaths of approximately 1.19 million people around the world each year and leave between 20 and 50 million people with non-fatal injuries.
More than half of all road traffic deaths occur among vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists.
Risk factors Many factors increase both the risk of road traffic crashes and the risk of death or injury they result in.
Driving under the influence of alcohol or other psychoactive substances presents significant risk factor for road traffic injuries.
WHO chairs the United Nations Road Safety Collaboration, and organizes and hosts, with key partners, high profile advocacy events such as UN road safety weeks and the annual World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims.

---

Document 10
Scabies Overview: Scabies is one of the commonest dermatological conditions, accounting for a substantial proportion of skin disease in many low- and middle-income countries.
Globally, it is estimated to affect more than 200 million people at any time and more than 400 million people every year.Scabies is caused by infestation of the skin with a microscopic mite (Sarcoptes scabiei var.
Scabies also impacts quality of life: itch and visible rash often lead to poor sleep, stigmatization and social exclusion, interrupting school and work attendance.
In resource-poor settings, scabies and its complications impose a major cost on health care systems.
Repeating treatment in the time frame appropriate for the chosen medication (typically after 7–14 days) will lead to a higher efficacy, particularly for oral ivermectin, which does not kill mite eggs.

---

Document 11
INB Bureau to develop a proposal for negotiating text of the pandemic accord The Drafting Group of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Body (INB) to draft and negotiate a WHO convention, agreement or other international instrument on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response (WHO CA+) held discussions and informal meetings from 4 – 6 September 2023 in order to advance work on a pandemic accord.
During the meeting, informal meetings of the INB Drafting Group discussed the following articles of the INB Bureau’s text: Article 4 (Pandemic prevention and public health surveillance) and Article 5 (Strengthening pandemic prevention and preparedness through a One Health approach) (jointly) co-facilitated by India, United Republic of Tanzania and the United Kingdom; Article 9 (Research and development) co-facilitated by Mexico and Norway; Article 11 (Co-development and transfer of technology and know-how) co-facilitated by Colombia, the Philippines and Saudi Arabia; Article 12 (Access and benefit-sharing) co-facilitated by Australia and Ethiopia; and Article 13 (Supply chain and logistics) co-facilitated by Indonesia and Pakistan.
The INB will hold additional co-facilitated informal meetings of the drafting group on Articles 4 and 5 (jointly), 11, and 12 by 22 September 2023, when the INB Drafting Group will resume its work to take stock of progress achieved through these informal meetings.
It was agreed that the proposal for negotiating text would be without prejudice to the right of any Member State to present textual proposals and to the status of the compilation document.
It was decided that the seventh meeting of the INB will take place from 6-10 November and will resume from 4-6 December 2023, to allow the presentation and consideration of the negotiating text of the WHO CA+.

---

Document 12
Unprecedented focus on global public health at UN General Assembly WHO urges world leaders to commit to progress on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response and to secure health for all, end TB, and reinvigorate SDGs WHO is urging leaders meeting at the 78th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA 78) in New York to put health for all on the highest political agenda and apply lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic.
“If COVID-19 taught us nothing else, it’s that when health is at risk, everything is at risk,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General.
“The fact that billions of people cannot access or afford essential health services exposes them to poverty, easily preventable and treatable diseases like TB, and to the impact of future epidemics and pandemics.
Walk the Talk The WHO Walk the Talk on 17 September in New York’s Central Park will kickstart UNGA78, promote physical and mental health, and will also celebrate WHO’s 75th anniversary.
Stakeholders will identify gaps and solutions to accelerate progress towards ending the tuberculosis epidemic by 2030 and ensuring equitable access to prevention, testing, treatment and care.

---

Document 13
It works under the principles of the Solidarity call to action and was designed to serve as a platform for developers of COVID-19 therapeutics, diagnostics, vaccines and other health products to voluntarily share their intellectual property, knowledge, and data to accelerate technological innovation and expand global production capacity.
WHO is preparing to share findings of the review of C-TAP and a proposed model for an evolved technology access pool.
Rosa Devés Alessandri, said, “For the University of Chile, the achievement of our scientists, is a source of pride and an encouragement for the advancement of biomedical research in our country.
Eloisa del Pino, President of CSIC said ‘This licensing agreement with C-TAP opens the possibility of finding partners in third countries to advance clinical trials with this vaccine as a future alternative to licensed COVID vaccine options worldwide, especially in resource-poor countries.”
Through its innovative business model, MPP partners with civil society, governments, international organisations, industry, patient groups, and other stakeholders to prioritise and license needed medicines and pool intellectual property to encourage generic manufacture and the development of new formulations.

---

Document 14
Launch of the WHO Online Repository of Evidence-Informed Decision-Making (EIDM) Tools The WHO online repository of evidence-informed decision-making (EIDM) tools is the first of its kind to highlight WHO tools and external tools utilized by WHO to facilitate knowledge translation and partner organizations involved in planning, managing, monitoring, and evaluating the process of evidence use and implementation.
The Evidence to Policy and Impact Unit of the Research for Health Department in the Science Division, in collaboration with the Evidence-Informed Policy Network (EVIPNet), has developed the repository of tools to support its EIDM capacity-sharing work.
It also involves evaluating, adjusting, and sustaining any achieved changes to ultimately enhance global health and equity.
The repository actively houses and maintains 75 tools and is continuously being updated as new tools emerge.
EVIPNet and the Evidence to Policy and Impact Unit will integrate the online repository of EIDM tools into their other capacity-sharing activities.

---

Document 15
While WHO has a long-standing tradition of working with CSOs, the establishment of the Commission takes the collaboration to a new level.
The launch of the Commission is the Director-General’s response to civil society requests to explore better and more meaningful ways to engage with WHO above and beyond those which already exist.
Others will be notified in the coming weeks.
Said the Steering Committee civil society co-chairs Lisa Hilmi (CORE group) and Ravi Ram (Medwise Solutions) “We welcome all civil society organizations committed to improve global health to join the WHO CSO Commission and look forward to their engagement and thought leadership for addressing critical health issues.”
The application can be accessed on the WHO website for the Civil Society Commission; there is no cut-off date for applications.

---

Document 16
Interviewer: In your opinion, why is evidence-informed policy-making crucial, in particular, in the context of public health and infectious diseases?
The chances were that this was the best course of action, though we did not necessarily have all the evidence to support it.
These differences are usually about the nuances, not the key substance.
However, the church leaders met the President, and appealed to him that this was a time when the congregants needed God; they needed the church.
Register now!

---

Document 17
WHO launches a new Global Initiative on Digital Health supported by the G20 Presidency The World Health Organization (WHO) and the G20 India presidency announced a new Global Initiative on Digital Health (GIDH) today at the Health Minister’s Meeting of the G20 Summit hosted by the Government of India.
“Continued support and collaboration of the G20, development partners and international organizations will be necessary to accomplish together what none of us can do alone.
The GIDH initiative aims to bring countries and partners together to achieve measurable outcomes by: developing clear priority-driven investment plans for digital health transformation; improving reporting and transparency of digital health resources; facilitating knowledge exchange and collaboration across regions and countries to accelerate progress; supporting whole-of-government approaches for digital health governance in countries; and increasing technical and financial support to the implementation of the Global Strategy on Digital Health 2020–2025 and its next phase.
WHO and partners announced substantial commitments in cash and kind from multiple stakeholders to support the launch of this new Initiative.
Digital health is a proven accelerator to advance health outcomes towards achieving Universal Health Coverage and the health-related Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.

---

Document 18
Afghanistan's health system suffers critical underfunding, calls for donor support Launched today by the World Health Organization (WHO), a new Alert underscores the crucial importance of ramping up investment in healthcare services provision in Afghanistan, particularly in the underserved areas where the healthcare infrastructure is severely under-resourced and remain vulnerable due to the ongoing humanitarian crisis.
As per the plan, 28.8 million people in Afghanistan require immediate assistance, up from 18.4 million prior to August 2021.
The WHO Alert highlights the dire consequences that will result if underfunding continues in Afghanistan's healthcare system.
I want to thank our current partners who have provided support thus far, but also to call on them to redouble their efforts”.
Much work still needs to be done to deliver on WHO’ strategic areas; Protecting people every day; Reaching everyone, everywhere, and putting mothers and children first; Leading the health sector by coordinating the health partners, and drive impact in delivering effective health services in Afghanistan.

---

Document 19
Technical Advisory Group on Arbovirus (TAG) meeting, Accra, Ghana The Global Arbovirus Initiative (GLAI) was launched last year in March to tackle emerging and re-emerging arboviruses with epidemic and pandemic potential.
The initiative is a collaborative effort between the World Health Organization’s World Health Emergencies Programme, Department of Control of Neglected Tropical Diseases, and Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals Department.
The TAG highlighted the importance of: data sharing, collaboration and transparency the integration of epidemiological, laboratory, entomological, and environmental data that are pivotal to better understand the transmission dynamics of known arboviruses and to prepare for the emergence of arboviruses with epidemic and pandemic potential.
2. The development of preemptive vector control surveillance and interventions for implementation during inter-epidemic periods in urban settings including: strengthening capacities in integrated vector surveillance and control building multisectoral collaborations for vector surveillance and control and integrating urban readiness for yellow fever vector control in susceptible urban centers.
4. The development of innovative platforms for partner engagement that seek to strengthen community engagement and resilience to arboviruses.

---

Document 20
Iraq eliminates trachoma as a public health problem 50th country recognized by WHO for eliminating a neglected tropical disease, marking the halfway point towards the 100-country target set for 2030 The World Health Organization (WHO) congratulates Iraq for having eliminated trachoma as a public health problem, making it the fifth country in WHO’s Eastern Mediterranean Region to achieve this milestone.
“The success of Iraq’s national trachoma programme has shown what can be achieved with national leadership and collaboration”, said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General.
“Thanks to Iraq’s dedication and commitment, the world is now closer to attaining the Sustainable Development Goals targets”.
Progress against trachoma and other neglected tropical diseases alleviates the human and economic burden that they impose on the world’s most disadvantaged communities.
The SAFE strategy consists of: Surgery to treat the blinding stage (trachomatous trichiasis); Antibiotics to clear the infection, particularly mass drug administration of the antibiotic azithromycin, which is donated by the manufacturer, Pfizer, to elimination programmes, through the International Trachoma Initiative; Facial cleanliness; and Environmental improvement, particularly improving access to water and sanitation.

---

Document 21
Hepatitis C can be cured; however, only 21% of people living with hepatitis C infection are diagnosed and only 13% have received curative treatment.
WHO will share new guidance to track countries’ progress on the path to the elimination of hepatitis by 2030.
Gavi’s recent restart of its Vaccine Investment Strategy 2018 – which includes the birth dose hepatitis B vaccine – will jumpstart newborn vaccination programmes in west and central Africa, where mother-to-child hepatitis B transmission rates remain very high.
A 12-week course of medication to cure hepatitis C now costs 60 US dollars for low-income countries, down from the original costs of more than 90 000 US dollars when first introduced in high-income countries.
For people who want to maintain liver health, WHO recommends hepatitis testing, treatment if diagnosed, and vaccination against hepatitis B. Reducing alcohol consumption, achieving a healthy weight, and managing diabetes or hypertension also benefit liver health.

---

Document 22
“For over 40 years, countries all over world have relied on the WHO Essential Medicines List as a definitive, evidence-based guide the most important medicines for delivering the biggest health impact,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General.
Full details of the Expert Committee’s recommendations, describing the additions, changes and removal of medicines, and decisions not to recommend medicines are available in the Executive Summary here.
“Given the evidence base and the increased affordability of rituximab, including the availability of prequalified biosimilars, it has been prioritized over on-label alternatives as an essential medicine to treat relapsing-remitting and progressive MS”.
The indications for several cancer medicines for children already included on the EMLc were extended to include new types of childhood cancers (anaplastic large cell lymphoma, Langerhans cell histiocytosis and Burkitt lymphoma).
The Expert Committee considered 85 applications for medicines to be added to the 22nd WHO Model List of Essential Medicines (EML) and the 8th WHO Model List of Essential Medicines for Children (EMLc).

---

Document 23
Member States continue work on potential pandemic accord Member States of the World Health Organization (WHO) continued their discussions towards a global accord on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, with a view to presenting the outcome of their work to the World Health Assembly in May 2024.
The sixth meeting opened with briefings by the co-facilitators of the intersessional informal meetings of the Drafting Group on Article 9 of the Bureau’s text (Research and development) led by Mexico and Norway, Article 12 (Access and benefit-sharing) led by Australia and Ethiopia and Article 13 (Supply chain and logistics) led by Indonesia and Pakistan, which conducted in-depth consultations with Member States on the sidelines of and after the resumed session of the fifth meeting of the INB.
It will take more work from all of us to reach the next step, i.e. to produce a negotiating text.
Mr Taguchi, the outgoing INB Bureau Member from the WPRO Region, added, “I am honoured to have served as Vice Chair and would like to thank the Member States and all for their support.
They also discussed topics of common interest to the INB and the WGIHR and provided views on how to move further towards coherence and complementarity between the two instruments.

---

Document 24
WHO urges countries to invest in drowning prevention to protect children On World Drowning Prevention Day this year, WHO is releasing an investment case on drowning prevention showing how just two actions – investing in day care for pre-school aged children and teaching basic swim skills to school-age children – could protect millions of lives.
It has caused over 2.5 million deaths in the last decade, with an alarming 90% of these fatalities occurring in low- and middle-income countries.
It could also prevent potential economic losses of over US$400 billion in low- and middle-income countries with high burden, and provide cumulative benefits valued at around US$ 9 for each US$ 1 invested.
The Alliance is a network of partners who will work together to coordinate, strengthen, enhance, and expand efforts to prevent drowning deaths, aligned with WHO's priorities.
WHO is also preparing a global status report on drowning prevention to better understand the impact of drowning and analyze government actions worldwide.

---

Document 25
WHO releases new guidance to improve testing and diagnosis of sexually transmitted infections The World Health Organization (WHO) is sharing its latest guidance on sexually transmitted infections (STI) at the STI & HIV 2023 World Congress taking place in Chicago, the United States of America, on 24-27 July 2023.
STIs on the rise globally During the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries had reported low coverage for prevention, testing and treatment services for STIs, which has led to a resurgence of STIs globally.
The enhanced gonorrhoea AMR surveillance (EGASP) suggests high rates of resistance in gonorrhoeae to current treatment options such as ceftriaxone, cefixime and azithromycin in Cambodia, for instance.
Syphilis, as well as congenital syphilis, are on the rise, and the lack of benzathine penicillin poses a considerable challenge to effectively treat them.
“Our new guidance can help make low-cost point of care tests for STIs more accessible, enabling improved data collection and quality delivery of STI services for people in need”.

---

Document 26
New WHO guidance and an accompanying Lancet systematic review released today describe the role of HIV viral suppression and undetectable levels of virus in both improving individual health and halting onward HIV transmission.
Among 16 000 people diagnosed with mpox and living with HIV, around one quarter (25%) had advanced HIV disease or immunosuppression – leading to an increased risk of hospitalization and death.
For people without HIV, the risk of death fell during the Omicron variant wave by 53%—55% compared to pre-Delta and Delta variant waves; but for people living with HIV, the percentage decline in mortality during the Omicron wave period compared to the other waves was modest (16%-19%).
The recommendation comes at a pivotal time, where self-care and self-testing are increasingly being recognized as ways to increase access, efficiency, effectiveness and acceptability of health care across many different disease areas, including HIV.
For more detailed information on WHO at the conference, visit: https://who.int/news-room/events/detail/2023/07/23/default-calendar/who-at-ias-conference-2023

---

Document 27
The partnership seeks to encourage strong country leadership.
The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the critical role of the public health laboratory in surveillance as well as the necessity for advancements in data collection, management, reporting, and dissemination to ensure evidence-based policy making during health security emergencies.
It provides a platform for sharing experiences and best practices, which will be essential for the success of the project," said Dr.
“Our collective ability to prevent, prepare for, and respond to healthy security emergencies remains critical to keeping our communities safe,” said Sara Hersey, Director of Collaborative Intelligence at the WHO Hub for Pandemic and Epidemic Intelligence.
Funded by the Government of Canada’s Weapons Threat Reduction Program and aligned with the health security objectives of the G7-led Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, the Health Security Partnership in Africa signifies a collective commitment to collaboration at the health security interface and will play a catalytic role in accelerating the building and pooling of capabilities and expertise for disease surveillance and epidemic intelligence in and for Africa.

---

Document 28
"With the information available so far, the virus does not appear to be able to transmit from one person to another easily, but vigilance is needed to identify any evolution in the virus that can change that,” said Dr Sylvie Briand, Director of Epidemic and Pandemic Preparedness and Prevention, WHO.
Curbing the spread of avian influenza Given the unprecedented spread of the A(H5N1) avian influenza virus among birds and mammals, and the potential risk to human health, the tripartite partners—FAO, WHO and WOAH—urge countries to take the following actions: Prevent avian influenza at its source, mainly through enhanced biosecurity measures in farms and in poultry value chains, and apply good hygiene practices.
Conduct epidemiological and virological investigations around animal outbreaks and human infections.
Current virological assessment/summary Markers for mammalian adaptation: The molecular marker 627K, or its equivalents such as 701N, in the PB2 gene have been detected in some but not all sequences of viruses obtained from mammalian infections.
None of the viruses from infected mammals, including humans, have changes indicating increased specificity of binding to human-like receptors.

---

Document 29
World Health Organization (WHO) Global Evidence to Policy (E2P) Summit 2023 Evidence as a catalyst for policy and societal change: building trust and bridging the evidence-to-policy gap “Evidence as a catalyst for policy and societal change: building trust and bridging the evidence-to-policy gap” We invite you to join the virtual WHO Global Evidence to Policy (E2P) Summit 2023 from 29 to 31 August 2023.
Highlights of the Summit include: Engage in debates on emerging E2P strategies, frameworks, and tools.
Discover strategies to enhance trust in science and combat misinformation.
Register now to secure your spot and be part of driving evidence-informed policymaking.
Zoom Link: link to Zoom registration Simultaneous interpretation will be available into Arabic, French, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.

---

Document 30
"I am honoured to serve as the WHO Director-General Special Envoy for Climate Change and Health.
Recognizing health at the forefront of climate discussions reinforces the vital role of collaboration and coordinated efforts to safeguard the well-being of current and future generations.
Through her leadership, Dr Kerry will contribute to WHO's work in shaping policies, fostering collaborations, and driving transformative action to protect and promote the health of populations in the face of climate challenges.
She has spoken and written about the effects of climate change on human health and health systems and the need to integrate a health-centered response into climate change mitigation and adaptation measures.
She is the mother of two children.

---

Document 31
Some 67% of hospitals in areas affected by fighting are closed, and several maternity hospitals are out of action, including Omdurman Hospital, the largest referral hospital in Sudan.
Health facilities in several states, including the Darfurs, have warned that they are facing critical shortages of medical supplies.
Most of them attend 3–4 births a day, according to the head of a UNFPA-supported midwife network.
WHO is working closely with the Ministry of Health and other partners to ensure provision of essential sexual, reproductive, maternal and paediatric care as well as emergency obstetric and neo-natal care in Khartoum and Gezira, and in states sheltering internally displaced people.
“Health workers are putting their lives at risk to provide emergency, maternity, paediatric and chronic disease treatment services and we stand with them,” said WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.

---

Document 32
Countries set out way forward for continued negotiations on global agreement on pandemic prevention, preparedness, and response Countries of the World Health Organization (WHO) have moved forward negotiations on a global accord on pandemic prevention, preparedness and response, with a view to presenting a draft accord to the World Health Assembly in May 2024.
The INB agreed to a series of intersessional informal meetings for Drafting Group participants in advance of the sixth meeting of the INB: Article 9 (Research and development) Article 12 (Access and benefit-sharing) Article 13 (Supply chain and logistics) The sixth meeting of the INB will be held from 17–21 July 2023 and the Drafting Group will be invited to continue its work with consideration of the Bureau’s text, continuing with the remaining articles of Chapter II and thereafter Chapters III and I. It was noted that a joint plenary session of the INB and the Working Group on Amendments to the International Health Regulations (WGIHR) would be held on the afternoon of 21 July and morning of 24 July 2023.
”INB Bureau Co-Chair, Ms Precious Matsoso of South Africa, said: “There was an excellent spirit of collaboration amongst the countries’ representatives.
When there are 194 countries sharing their views, it will, of course, take time and much discussion to come to agreement on the many important issues concerning pandemic prevention, preparedness and response.
For more information:

---

Document 33
The Rabat Declaration was adopted during the high-level segment of the Third Global Consultation on the Health of Refugees and Migrants that took place on 13–15 June 2023 (1).
The meeting aimed to promote the inclusion of refugees and migrants in national health systems as part of the global movement for universal health coverage, and work towards resilient and sustainable health emergency prevention, preparedness and response capacities.
One in eight people globally is either a migrant or is forcibly displaced by factors including conflict, persecution, environmental degradation, or the lack of human security and opportunity.
Stakeholders also pledge to foster inclusive financing mechanisms to reduce budget pressures on national systems and promote the meaningful participation of refugees and migrants in health policy discussions to identify and design appropriate interventions for their health needs.
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General, World Health Organization “Our ultimate goal for this consultation is to promote the appropriate interventions that improve, protect and preserve the health and well-being of all refugees and migrants, and host communities.

---

